What is generative A I generative A I is primarily
it is used for generating new and original content,
right?
So when we look at uh generative A I, right?
So how it's different from traditional A I uh more focused on, you know,
performing a specific task or activity?
Say for example, right,
if you need to classify
a defect or you know,
or in the application development space or if you need
to classify or classify an incident or cluster an incident,
you will need to make use of the appropriate uh algorithms, you know,
maybe a support vector mission or a Kines clustering algorithm and so on,
you need to train the data,
you need to test the data and then based on that
you'll be able to execute it for that particular task only.
So that is the, that is what is with respect to the traditional A I.
But when it comes to generative A I,
generative A I, it,
it it it makes use of this large language models and especially over the last one,
you know, with the, you know the the with the chat GP T going public, right?
So you would have, I'm sure all of you would have, you know,
tried different ways and forms of
chat GP T or other uh you know,
um
conversation interfaces,
which uh which connects to the large language models like bar and all that.
So,
generative A I makes use of different large language models
which has been trained with millions and millions of parameters.
And then based on um and these parameters have been sourced from the public
uh you know the database of the internet and then based on that right,
it can generate text.
So you give a text, it will provide a text.
So you might, you might want to ask a question,
right? And when you ask the question, it will provide a response,
you type a text to generate a code, it will be in a position to generate the same.
Similarly
by um by keying in a text, you will be in a position to generate
an image.
Uh you might be able to generate an architecture diagram,
you'll be able to generate videos, audios, you know.
So all these things
now, if you look at what the key differences between generative and A I,
so
the differences are primarily with respect to the
different parameters that we are seeing over here.
The first one being the core functionality.
So when traditional A I
traditional A I is more predictive
diagnostic and it's partly generative. Whereas
when it is,
when we focus on generative A I
it generates new content.
Then again, when we look at the applicability,
traditional A I is only specific to
some use cases.
Whereas generative A I
is focused on a wide range of use cases.
And traditional A I,
it is trained prior to deployment.
Whereas generative A I is pre trained on billions of data parameters.
Again, when we look at the training data
in traditional A I,
it is trained with a use case specific data like I was mentioning right,
with respect to say, for example,
with respect to sentiment analysis or defect classification.
But then when it comes to generative A I,
it is trained with billions of public data parameters.
So the output quality of traditional A I, it's all based on the data that uh
flows in
so it could be garbage in and garbage out.
So when it comes to generative A I, it is all based on the context. So it is ga garbage
and hallucination out you can you you can generate content but then the output might
not be realistic for all. For all we know.
Then in traditional A I, there's a lot to focus on the training data,
the quality of the data that is provided.
Whereas in generative A I,
the focus is on the context. So for example,
you might want to see right here, you know say for example, right,
you might have majority of, you might have made use of the
CHA GP T right.
So where in which you might have used it for querying for different aspects?
Now, uh when we look at that as well.
So for example, if you,
uh if people here are from the application maintenance space, so you might want,
if you want to know how exactly a job needs to be processed.
So, and you ask a question, definitely you'll get an output.
But then how if, how do you
as a job in your client specific context, then
you know, you will get a output which might not really be relevant.
So that is hallucination. So
in generative A I, there's a lot of focus on the domain context.
So these are the key differences between traditional A I and generative
A I with respect to all these parameters that we are seeing
right now.
The main thing in generative A I is that
it
it is based on the foundation models, right?
And these foundation models have a broad range of capabilities.
So right from you know the question answer then summarizing
generating code, generating content, you know, automation and so on.
So for example, you ask a question,
you know,
how do I process an invoice?
You will get a response.
So if you have uh an email,
you might want to summarize that email content,
you, you might want to generate
a code,
right? For your um for a payment processing module,
you can use generative A I,
you want to generate a content, right? So for example, you might want to
uh generate a design document,
you can use generative A I.
So like this,
you can actually use it for
multiple you know different purposes and you can use in text data,
an image, you can use voice and so you with the structured data,
you can use unstructured data.
So all these things for various purposes and
there are a lot of players in the market and the number is increasing day by day.
So, but the key players are the Azure open
A I, the Azure,
then we have the Google,
then the Aws,
then the oracle and
NVIDIA. So Azure,
they have abs
open
A I Google the palm, then the vertex A I Aws bedrock oracle cohere, then NVIDIA.
So these are all the leading players and there are multiple models
that we can uh that are available today and almost there are 700
odd generative A I
models as of date,
right?
And the numbers are continuously increasing day by
day with uh it's being fine tuned,
refined, new models are being
developed and so on. And
that we have multiple models say for example, for generating text, right?
So we uh it could be with respect to a
marketing content or with respect to a sales email or
you know, a chat or you know, just a simple, you know, uh generating some content.
So you can use generative A I and the models that are available include like open
A I
GP T three dot Fighter book
GP T four. Then we have deep mind
gopher meal
Lama then hugging face, Cohere
Anor
Google
Palm like this. We have so many models. Similarly when it comes to code generation
for documentation,
converting code from one language to another.
So
we have different models that are available
like the GPT four, then tab nine stability
A codex alpha
code and so on.
Similarly, for image generating image,
then for consumer
than for advertising.
So
if there are multiple models that are available like the GP T four open E
GP T four, then stable diffusion, then
Dhi
then there's mid
journey crayon like there, there are so many models and then again for speech
video,
3d
and other aspects like gaming, music, audio
for biology. All these, there are so many generative A I models that are available,
three generative A I.
So you will be able to um you make use of these foundation
models or the large language models and then it is
made it is used for performing different kinds of activities.
So there are different kinds of use cases over here.
So with respect to the question answer, so you ask a question, you get a response,
then maybe you, you know, you have a la
um you have uh the cubic conversation, right with somebody.
And then uh you might want to quickly summarize that
particular conversation and get the concise list of uh information.
So, or you might have an email,
you might want to summarize that particular uh email or, you know, within a ticket,
the data, you, you might have a huge description in that particular uh ticket data.
You might want to
memorize that.
Then again, you might, you know, you might want to generate a code,
you given the text, I want to write it.
Can you give me a, a code to um uh uh to change the color of uh uh of a screen, you know,
from red to blue.
So you it will immediately be able to generate such a code then generating a content,
right?
So for uh for example, I want to get generate the um
uh uh a survey uh after the particular training session or,
or generate uh uh requirements uh document, right?
So it will be able to generate that then again to over perform automation, right?
So enriching a ticket data or you know,
identifying the root cause analysis and so on.
So, and um across the market, right?
So there are a lot of players who are involved in uh in this. So
there is the Azure Open A I, then again, Google has the uh with the bar,
then aws uh bedrock, then oracles cohere, then again in media.
So like this, there are so many um large language models by different uh players.
And um so, and you can actually see those over here, right?
So with respect to text,
we have the open A GP T four. Then again, um
the deep
mind gopher
Lama
then um Lambda.
So and all this is actually, I mean, you can make use of for um you know,
uh in uh marketing content, sales support, general writing.
Then again, um with respect to code, right,
you many of you might have tried using the github uh
Copilot or the codex or Tab nine, right?
So it, it uh it uh supports in the code generation, code remediation,
you know the documentation,
the test case generation.
So all those things then again, when it comes to I images, right?
So there are different kinds of uh models that are available like the GP T uh four.
Then there we have the
DALI three, then uh we have the
stable diffusion imagine news, then more
mid journey. So all these other then similarly, you know, there are different uh
large language models which are available for speech, for video for 3D
and so on.
I hope you have just had a,
a glance at all these uh models that are available and it is an evolving one, right?
So now GP T uh PHI is actually it is going to come up.
So the and it's a continuously evolving one.